# Entry 1 : How I decided on my Java Script tool
##### 11/7/22

### Content 
Over the past few weeks, I have been tinkering with numerous tools in order to find the right tool that I will incorporate into my freedom project. My priority choice was making a 3D animation escape room game with [Threejs](https://threejs.org). However, as I tinkered with Threejs, I realized that Threejs is only for 3D animation and not for a game engine. Therefore, I tinker with my second tool which is [Phaser](https://phaser.io/). I planned to use Phaser to make a platformer game. After spending a few hours tinkering with Phaser, I decided to change my tool again. Phaser is a game engine, however, I do not feel like phaser is the right tool for me because I don't really understand its documentations and there are rarely any Youtube tutorials for Phaser game engine. Lastly, I decided to use [Kaboom](https://kaboomjs.com/) because there are a lot of different game examples on their page and I was able to find various youtube tutorials that thoroughly taught me about Kaboom. I was trying to tinker with Kaboom to see if it works for escape the room game. However, Kaboom is more for 2D games than 3D, so I decided to use Kaboom to create a platformer game. The platformer game will have different levels and the user's goal is to collect everything possible and escape from those enemies. I used this [youtube tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2nucjefSr6I) to guide me through the process of learning Kaboom. Additionally, I tinker with [Replit](https://replit.com/@lingyingy9447/mario-kaboomjs#game.js) while following through with the tutorial and altering some parts of it. 

### Engineering Design Process and Skills
I'm currently **researching the problem** and **planning the most promising solution** for the engineering design process. Throughout this process, I tinker with different tools to decide on the right tool for my freedom project. Next, I will be entering the process of **creating a prototype** of the engineering design process. I will continue to tinker with Kaboom and try to create a mini project of what my freedom project will be like. The skills I have developed throughout this process are **how to learn** and **time management**. I have to manage my time wisely so that I can tinker the best out of it and  evaluate if the tool was the right one for me. Additionally, throughout the process of tinkering, I need to develop the skill of how to learn because learning a Java Script tool is not like learning other things. Learning Kaboom requires me to break down the code and read every word carefully. If I misread something, it might cause the code to  function improperly.



[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md)